# Exercise 5
## Structs, unions and bitfields

Reading: Chapter 5 of *Head First C*, Chapter 5 of *Think OS*, and
[this paper about generating random floating-point
values](http://allendowney.com/research/rand/downey07randfloat.pdf)


1) In this directory, read over `rand.c` and `test1.c`, then
compile and run `test1.c`.  It should generate 10000 random numbers
between 0 and 1.

2) If you pipe the output from `test1.c` into `check_uniform.py`, it should
plot the CDF of the values generated by `test1.c`.  If the values
are uniformly distributed from 0 to 1, the result should be a straight
line.

3) Repeat this test with `test2.c` to confirm that the values generated
by `my_random_float` have the right distribution.

4) Read through `time_rand.c`, then compile and run it.  Which
random number generator is the fastest?

Here's the output that I got:

```
256.000000 ms 	 dummy
812.000000 ms 	 dummy2
824.000000 ms 	 random_float
888.000000 ms 	 my_random_float
2032.000000 ms 	 my_random_float2
```

If the `dummy` functions don't count, then it looks like the standard algorithm is the fastest by about 64 ms.

5) Fill in the body of `my_random_double` to generate random doubles,
rather than floats.  Test it to see if it
returns numbers uniformly distributed from 0 to 1.

So... I think I did the calculations correctly (how many bits to allocate for the exponent, and how many for the coefficient), but I couldn't get `my_random_double` to return anything but 0's. Some theories:

```
    while (1) {
        x = rand();
        if (x == 0) {
            exp -= 63;
        } else {
            break;
        }
    }
```

This code maybe isn't generating enough random bits? I should have 63 random bits, but I think this code only generates up to 32 (because that's what `rand()` does).

```
    mant = x >> 12;
    b.i = (exp << 52) | mant;
```

Alternatively, I think maybe this code just isn't shifting the bits by the correct amount.

6) Modify `time_rand.c` to compare `my_random_double` and
`random_double`.  Which is faster?

Here's the output that I get now:

```
832.000000 ms 	 random_double
2020.000000 ms 	 my_random_double
```

The standard algorithm is still way faster, it seems.

7) Check in your modified version of `rand.c` and `time_rand.c`.


## Object-oriented C

1) In this directory you should find

*  find_track.c: A solution from `ex02.5`.

*  find_track_oo.c: An outline of an object-oriented solution, which you will fill in.

Compile and run `find_track.c`, just to make sure it still works.

2) Compile and run find_track_oo.c.  It should compile and run, but
not find any tracks.

3) Fill in the bodies of the empty functions and get find_track_oo.c working.

4) Check `find_track_oo.c` in to the repo.
