# Exercise 2
## Pointers


### The address space

1. Compile and run `aspace.c` in this directory.

2. Read the code.  You might want to [read about malloc here](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/c_standard_library/c_function_malloc.htm).

3. Based on the output, draw a sketch of the virtual address space (see page 80 of HFC).  Show the relative locations of the stack, heap, globals, constants, and code.

[Here's a link to my sketch.](https://github.com/YehEmily/ExercisesInC/blob/master/exercises/ex02/diagram.jpg)

4. Add a second call to `malloc` and check whether the heap on your system grows up (toward larger addresses).

This was my output:

```
Address of main is 0x5616a6460740
Address of var1 is 0x5616a6661014
Address of var2 is 0x7ffdbcf6a9f4
Address of p is 0x5616a6924010
Address of s is 0x5616a64608b4

Address of p is now 0x5616a69244b0
```

It looks like the heap did grow up towards larger addresses (`0x5616a6924010` vs `0x5616a69244b0`).

5. Add a function that prints the address of a local variable, and check whether the stack grows down.

This was my new output:

```
Address of main is 0x55fc72b4f78d
Address of var1 is 0x55fc72d50014
Address of var2 is 0x7ffcce33b4b4
Address of p is 0x55fc73c32010
Address of s is 0x55fc72b4f93b

Address of p is now 0x55fc73c324b0

Address of local variable a is 0x7ffcce33b494
```

It looks like the address actually grew upwards when I called a new function and printed its local variable's address.

6. Choose a random number between 1 and 32, and allocate two chunks with that size.
How much space is there between them?  Hint: Google knows how to subtract hexadecimal numbers.

This was my code:

```
void *b = malloc(10);
void *c = malloc(10);

printf ("Address of b is %p\n", b);
printf ("Address of c is %p\n\n", c);
```

Here was my output:

```
Address of b is 0x55924be084d0
Address of c is 0x55924be084f0
```

The difference between the two is 0x20 bytes in hexadecimal, or 32 bytes in decimal. This is because `malloc` tries to optimize the amount of space that gets allocated, and 32 bytes happens to be the standard amount of space.

### Stack allocated data

1.  Read `stack.c`, which should be in this directory.  What is it
intended to do?  What would the output be if the program worked as
expected?

Expected/Intended: I'm not sure, since the comment at the top of the file just says "Example code for Think OS."

Actual: `stack.c` has two functions that create two arrays, both of which are size 5; `foo()` fills its array with 42s and `bar()` writes the numbers 0 through 4 to its array. The `main` function only prints the elements in the array with 42s.

2.  Compile it.  Do you get a warning?  What does it mean?

Yes - 

```
stack.c: In function ‘foo’:
stack.c:22:12: warning: function returns address of local variable [-Wreturn-local-addr]
     return array;
            ^~~~~
0x7ffdb02b5200
0x7ffdb02b5200
Segmentation fault (core dumped)
```

It means I'm returning the address of a local variable, which is local (and accessible?) only to the function that created it.

3.  Run it.  What happens?  You might get a segmentation fault, or you might get
some strange output.  Can you explain it?  You might find it
helpful to draw a stack diagram.

I did get a segmentation fault.  My output is this:

```
0x7fff5a12b6d0
0x7fff5a12b6d0
```

This indicates that the arrays initialized in `foo()` and then `bar()` are both located at the same address. This is because both arrays were local variables that were only stored in the stack while their respective functions were running.

4.  Comment out the `print` statements in `foo()` and `bar()` and run
it again.  What happens now?

Now nothing prints, but I still get the segmentation fault that I had before. I think that on other machines, the program would print whatever was in the array in `bar()`, but on my computer, just nothing prints.

5.  Add comments to the code to explain these experiments and the results,
then check the code in to the repo.

Moral: Don't return pointers to stack allocated data!

### Write some code

Create a file named `adder.c` and write a program that allows the user to enter integers, one per line, until the user hits Control-D, which is the end-of-file (EOF) character.

It should convert the numbers from input strings to integers and store the integers in an array.  The program should produce appropriate error messages if the user enters something that exceeds the length of the input buffer, or can't be converted to an integer.  It should also produce an error message if the user enters more numbers than will fit in the array.

After the user enters Control-D, the program should add up the numbers in the array and print the result.

Your program should be divided into at least two functions with well designed interfaces.

Optionally, the program should produce an error if the sum exceeds the largest integer that can be represented.

Hint: You will probably want to use two functions we haven't seen yet:

* strlen: [Read about it here](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/c_standard_library/c_function_strlen.htm)

* atoi: [Read about it here](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/c_standard_library/c_function_atoi.htm)

Before you use there functions, you need to `#include <string.h>`.
